From Dust to Dust

16 Furthermore, I saw under the sun that in the place of judgment there is wickedness, and in the place of righteousness there is wickedness. 
17 I said in my heart, “God will judge the righteous and the wicked, since there is a time for every activity and every deed.”
18 I said to myself, “As for the sons of men, God tests them so that they may see for themselves that they are but beasts.” 
19 For the fates of both men and beasts are the same: As one dies, so dies the other—they all have the same breath.a Man has no advantage over the animals, since everything is futile. 
20 All go to one place; all come from dust, and all return to dust.
21 Who knows if the spirit of man rises upward and the spirit of the animal descends into the earth? 
22 I have seen that there is nothing better for a man than to enjoy his work, because that is his lot. For who can bring him to see what will come after him?

-Ecclesiastes 3


“The haft of the arrow had been feathered with one of the eagles own plumes. We often give our enemies the means of our own destruction.”
― Aesop 

Exodus:Élan
<i>From dust, Return to dust</i>
On moon obscura of planet Élan, intelligent alien life forms lay afoot.
You are one alien of the Green plant like race.
A warrior drone, who's sole designation is to fight to further the hive minds motivations.
Warriors are designated by birthing them from the soil, and asking them "do you wish to fight for your race?". If they reply "no", they are returned to the soil.

Obscura is a hostile moon planet. There are 4 semi-intelligent races vying for the control of pits of "Blood" for the survival of their own races.
"Blood" is the pool from which life is brought.
These semi-intelligent life forces are programmed to seek more blood pits and destroy those that get in their way. An endless struggle. Comparable to diffusion and Entropy.

Green Race - Ravenous
The second most intelligent race, protaganist race.
This race is led by a hive mind.
Spawn Highly effective single warriors (you) in key locations to destroy all life.
Warriors are designed to kill all, and must be spawned carefully.
Their ability to detect their same race was intentionally removed to speed up their reaction speeds. Simply destroy all.
They're given a few tools to aid in their hellpath. 
Thread and Needle (Living blood Extraction): Warriors can use the living blood of their foe to refuel their primal gun. The throw a quick needle piercing and extracting the blood throw the thread back to the warrior. The blood is instantly transferred to the warrior via strong osmotic pressure.
    (Alternate) Thread and Sickle: The warrior throws a sickle at enemies, once struck the warrior tears the flesh of his foe leaving Living blood in the air. After .5s, the living blood begins flying towards the players, refilling his primal gun, one blood at a time. 
        ^This results in gameplay to balance timing of extraction, to maintain combos, must right click preemptively, s.t. that blood is returning to him once he's just about to run out of ammo.
        He should also be able to move and shoot during this animation. maybe like an appendage shooting from his body.
Primal Gun: Uses Living Blood as ammo. Changes form based on the race blood type. Not necessarily more effective against the same race. An invention of the Green Race.
Abilities: Warriors are gifted with unique abilities to aid in either survival or destruction. 
May need to fight other warriors and other drones of this race, if the hive mind "misplaced" the spawn. The hive mind often places warriors in the path of it's own villages to test the warriors' and villages destructive/defensive capabilities in nature.

Living Blood is the "blood" of living creatures. Call it living to make it special and to justify not taking blood from corpses.


Animals - Diffusion
Lower-intelligence life forms that also need the blood pits for survival.
They are not sided with any race, but are sometimes captured and used as living weapons by other races.
Simple and usually run straight at the player. Melee attacks. fast. 
Be wary of groups.

Deep forest creatures - Chaos
Life forms that emerge from the Deep Forest. Their intelligence is unknown and it is unsure if these creatures are even sentient.
Deep forest creatures drink from tainted blood pits. They are larger and asymmetric, changing shape. They move rapidly and slowly, quickly shifting their speeds.
The living blood of these enemies have strange properties. The creatures sometimes emit gasses that destroy things in their path.
They consume living blood entities. The primal gun is thought to be manifested from the flesh of these deep forest creatures.


Red Race - Deposition
A new semi-intelligent race.
Somewhere between animals and the gray race in terms of intelligence. Resemble goblins.
Use simple weaponry to protect their blood pits.
Definitely use animals as workers.
Beginning to formulate small villages.

Gray Race - Order
Independent humanoids. Resemble thin athletic humans, chiseled bodies. They have no faces or hair. they wear no clothes
They have acrobatic abilities. Spawn Gray kinetic weapons from the ground (spears). Like FMA
They communicate with focused Electromagnetic waves projected from their heads.
Elites have such strong EM waves that can be used rupture the tissue of foes. and are marked by their bandanas with an Eye painted on it. Device that resembles eye that focuses the EM waves.
Multiple elites can come together to harmonize their EM waves, to produce a stronger attack continuous beam.
Can leap and cling on to walls despite their immense weight. 
Their race most resembles that of the humans, with their civilizations having thick walled structures, probably to insulate waves. They have a council of elites to determine their races fate. Their research focuses on alternatives to blood as fuel for their race.



The Red race/Animals is a younger parallel to the gray race/and deep forest animals. 
The gray race has evolved to push back the deep forest animals and create a civilization.
The red race is a new civilization coevolving with animals, utilizing their strengths for their society.

The grey race is a steady state system. The red race is positioned to potentially replace them as the new steady state system. 

In the midst, of this the green race is completely different from the red race, gray race, and animals. Being a hive mind. It has some similarities to the deep forest creatures. Perhaps it is one big deep forest creature.
As the green race, only took what it could, the grey race neglected to attempt to destroy the green race, due to lack of resources and the difficulty in doing so.
But as the green race slowly grows and evolves, the grey race are pushed to uncomfortable odds. 

Your job as the warrior of the green race is to destroy all life in your path including that of your own race.

The run ends once you die. or after defeating the final boss implying the capture of all blood pits on the planet.
The end sees the gray race take the Ark, a space ship carrying their race and animals plus some red races, it's assumed they also brought samples of the tainted creatures as well as those of the green race
, across to land on Élan, panning to Obscura to see it covered by Green. This implies that they did discover a way to fuel their race without the use of blood.
^Setup for sequel.


Intro:
    The player plays as a maternal drone. You start off in a dark cave with a dim light. The cave is a wide one with sentient podlings all around.
    The goal of the player in the intro is to find a podling that wishes to fight. He walks up to any podling and interacts with it, the podling then replies.
    Once the player finds a podling that wishes to fight (1/10), he cuts off the head from the body. 
    The head is taken to special blood pool where his head is grafted onto that of a new body, and dipped into the pool.
    At this point, the player assumes control of the warrior, and is asked once again "do you wish to fight?". Answering no ends the Accolade and returns the player to dust inside of the pool.
    Answering yes bubbles the pool and splashes as the warrior jumps up. He now assumes full control.
    Inside of the accolade room with the player is an armory. This section doubles as the tutorial. Given he has no ammo, he is given swing on his left click. He must punch a holder drone to get his thread and needle. 
    In the next section he must, use the the thread and needle to extract the blood of a target drone. using the target drone's blood he must kill the door drone.
    The next section is a simple arena where waves of enemies are dropped all of a single type for each wave. This allows the player to try out different guns in respect to the blood they drop.
    There should be a shield type to force the player to stun him with the needle, but still be unable to melee him. or gaps in the floor to prevent him from meleeing through the entire tutorial.
    Or an enemy type that blocks all bullets but gets bashed in by melee like a mage.
    The tutorial opens a more direct path from the spawning pull to the exit.
    From the spawning pull the tutorial can be tried again going down the old path, but the new path will always exist.

After the intro he leaves the cave and begins his onsloughtt.
Spawns in Plains 1